---
title: Client Monitoring Using Agentless Exception Monitoring in Operations Manager
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: system-center-threshold
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - operations-manager
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: fe53bb3b-9072-4b7d-a518-a210c3e1e17f
manager:cfreeman
---
# Client Monitoring Using Agentless Exception Monitoring in Operations Manager
The Client Monitoring feature of [!INCLUDE[om12long](../../om/manage/includes/om12long_md.md)] enables you to monitor operating systems and applications for errors and participate in the Customer Experience Improvement Program \(CEIP\).  
  
Agentless Exception Monitoring \(AEM\) is a component of the Client Monitoring feature in [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage/includes/om12short_md.md)]. AEM enables you to monitor operating systems and applications for errors within your organization. By default, when a Microsoft application encounters a severe error, it creates a report that can be sent to Microsoft to consolidate data that can lead to a reduction in errors. Using AEM, you can direct these reports to an Operations Manager management server. Operations Manager can then provide detailed views and reports on this consolidated error data. Using this data, you can determine how often an operating system or application experiences an error and the number of affected computers and users.  
  
## AEM Views  
By default, the following views display AEM data in the Monitoring area of the Operations console:  
  
**Application View**  
A state view that lists applications that have failures.  
  
**Crash Listener View**  
A state view that lists the computers that are listening for failures that occur on other computers or applications.  
  
**Error Events**  
An event view that lists the application error reports generated by severe application or operating system failures.  
  
**Error Group View**  
A state view that lists application errors by error group.  
  
**System Error Group View**  
A state view that lists the computers that have an operating system failure.  
  
## Client Monitoring Using Agentless Exception Monitoring topics  
  
-   [How to Configure a Management Server for Client Monitoring](../../om/manage/How-to-Configure-a-Management-Server-for-Client-Monitoring.md)  
  
-   [How to Configure Clients for Client Monitoring](../../om/manage/How-to-Configure-Clients-for-Client-Monitoring.md)  
  
-   [How to Customize Client Monitoring Data Collection and Solution Response URLs for Error Groups](../../om/manage/How-to-Customize-Client-Monitoring-Data-Collection-and-Solution-Response-URLs-for-Error-Groups.md)  
  
-   [How to Configure Error Transmission Settings for Client Monitoring in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/How-to-Configure-Error-Transmission-Settings-for-Client-Monitoring-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
  
-   [Forwarding Client Error Reports &#40;Client Monitoring&#41;](../../om/manage/Forwarding-Client-Error-Reports--Client-Monitoring-.md)  
  
## Other resources for this component  
  
-   [TechNet Library main page for Operations Manager](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=223634)  
  
-   [Operations Guide for System Center 2012 - Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Operations-Guide-for-System-Center-2012---Operations-Manager.md)  
  
-   [Initial Monitoring After Operations Manager Is Installed](../../om/manage/Initial-Monitoring-After-Operations-Manager-Is-Installed.md)  
  
-   [Managing Access in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Managing-Access-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
  
-   [Getting Information from Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Getting-Information-from-Operations-Manager.md)  
  
-   [General Tasks in Operations Manager_1](../Topic/General%20Tasks%20in%20Operations%20Manager_1.md)  
  
-   [Maintenance of Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Maintenance-of-Operations-Manager.md)  
  
-   [Operations Manager Report Authoring Guide](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=217092)  
  
-   [Managing Discovery and Agents](../Topic/Managing%20Discovery%20and%20Agents.md)  
  
