---
title: Creating Views in Operations Manager
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: system-center-threshold
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - operations-manager
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: ac556a83-37b4-4388-b033-d1a59c52ab79
manager:cfreeman
---
# Creating Views in Operations Manager
[!INCLUDE[om12long](../../om/manage//om12long_md.md)] views display information that meets specific criteria. When you select a view, a query is sent to the Operations Manager database and the results of the query are displayed in the results pane. You can use the standard views created when Operations Manager is installed, views provided by management packs, or create your own custom views.  
  
You must have the rights of the Author role to create a view in the Monitoring workspace. If you are an operator, you can create a view in My Workspace. The procedures below create views in My Workspace, however the same procedures apply to creating a view in the Monitoring workspace.  
  
For information on selecting the objects, classes, or groups for a view, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
This topic contains the following procedures:  
  
-   [How to Create an Alert View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateanalertview)  
  
-   [How to Create an Event View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateaneventview)  
  
-   [How to Create a State View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateastateview)  
  
-   [How to Create a Performance View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateaperformanceview)  
  
-   [How to Create a Diagram View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateadiagramview)  
  
-   [How to Create a Task Status View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateataskstatusview)  
  
-   [How to Create a Web Page View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateawebpageview)  
  
-   [How to Create a Dashboard View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateadashboardview)  
  
-   [How to Create an Overrides Summary View](../../om/manage/Creating-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_howtocreateanoverridessummaryview)  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateanalertview"></a>How to Create an Alert View  
You can create a custom alert view that shows only those alerts that you want to see. For example, if you need to track the status of UNIX\-based or Linux\-based computers, you can create a view that shows only critical alerts generated by those computers.  
  
#### To create an alert view  
  
1.  In the Operations console, click **My Workspace**.  
  
2.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view and point to **New**, and click **Alert View**.  
  
3.  In the **Properties** dialog box of the alert view, type a name and a description for the view. \(The description is optional.\)  
  
4.  Set the criteria to identify the alerts to display:  
  
    1.  Narrow the pool of possible alerts by identifying a class or group for alerts. For example, to create an alert view for UNIX\-based or Linux\-based computers, select **Unix Computer** in the **Show data related to** list. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
    2.  Select the conditions that define the content of the view. There are a number of different conditions that you can choose, from severity or priority to alerts that include text in specific fields. For example, for the UNIX\-based or Linux\-based computers alert view, select **of a specific severity** in the **Select conditions** list.  
  
    3.  Refine the criteria description by clicking the underlined text in the **Criteria description** box.  
  
        For the UNIX\-based or Linux\-based computers alert view, click **specific**. In the **Alert Type** window, select **Critical**, and then click **OK**.  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    > You can add multiple criteria to refine the view to fit your needs.  
  
5.  Customize the appearance of the alert view on the **Display** tab. You can specify the columns to display, the sort order for the columns, and the manner in which items are grouped.  
  
6.  Click **OK** to create the view.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateaneventview"></a>How to Create an Event View  
An event view can only display events that are collected by a management pack. [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)] does not collect all events.  
  
#### To create an event view  
  
1.  In the Operations console, click **My Workspace**.  
  
2.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view, point to **New**, and then click **Event View**.  
  
3.  In the **Properties** dialog box of the event view, type a name and a description for the view. \(The description is optional.\)  
  
4.  Set the criteria to identify the events to display:  
  
    1.  Narrow the pool of possible events by identifying a class or group for events. For example, to create an event view for UNIX\-based computers, select **Unix Computer** in the **Show data related to** list. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
    2.  Select the conditions that define the content of the view. There are a number of different conditions that you can choose. For example, for the UNIX\-based computers event view, select **with specific severity level** in the **Select conditions** list.  
  
        > [!NOTE]  
        > When you select **generated by specific rules**, only event collection rules can be selected. If you do not see the rule that you want to select when you click **specific**, ensure that the category of the rule you want is **Event Collection**.  
  
    3.  Refine the criteria description by clicking the underlined text in the **Criteria description** box.  
  
        For the UNIX\-based computers event view, click **specific**. In the **Event Type** window, select **Audit Failure**, and then click **OK**.  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    > You can add multiple criteria to refine the view to fit your needs.  
  
5.  Customize the appearance of the event view on the **Display** tab. You can specify the columns to display, the sort order for the columns, and the manner in which items are grouped.  
  
6.  Click **OK** to create the view.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateastateview"></a>How to Create a State View  
The state view in [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)] is like most other view types in that you use the **Criteria** tab in the **Properties** dialog box of the view to define which objects you want shown in your view. You then use the **Display** tab to customize how the data looks in your view. Each section of the **Criteria** tab adds an additional filter to your view.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
> When a state view is displayed, you might find that multiple objects are listed by the same name. For example, a Windows\-based computer object and management server object might have the same computer name. The Windows\-based computer object and the management server object will be listed on their own row in the state view and thus, the same computer name will be listed twice. This is expected behavior.  
  
#### To create a state view  
  
1.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view, point to **New**, and then click **State View**.  
  
2.  In the **Properties** dialog box of the event view, type a name and a description for the view. \(The description is optional.\)  
  
3.  On the **Criteria** tab, click the ellipses \(**…**\) next to the **Show data related to** box. The **Select a Target Type** dialog box displays a list of the object types available in your management group. Click to select the object type of the objects that you want to view, and then click **OK**. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
    The object type you select is listed in the **Show data related to** box. If you want to narrow the focus of the view, you can also click the ellipses \(**…**\) next to **Show data contained in a specific group**. Click a group to filter the objects shown in your view, and then click **OK**.  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    > If you do not see the object type that you want, click **View all targets** and then type a word or phrase in **Find** to filter the displayed list.  
  
4.  Use the checkboxes provided to select individual criteria to apply additional filters to the objects that you want to display in your view. You might need to further define the criteria in the **Criteria description** box.  
  
5.  Click the **Display** tab. By default, all columns in your state view display. Click to deselect one or more columns that you do not want to display. Choose how you want to sort the objects in your view in **Sort columns by**.  
  
6.  Click **OK** to create the view.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateaperformanceview"></a>How to Create a Performance View  
Performance views use data stored in the operational database. A performance view can only display performance counters that are collected by a management pack. [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)] does not collect all performance counters.  
  
#### To create a performance view  
  
1.  In the Operations console, click **My Workspace**.  
  
2.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view, point to **New**, and then click **Performance View**.  
  
3.  In the **Properties** dialog box of the performance view, type a name and a description for the view. \(The description is optional.\)  
  
4.  Set the criteria to identify the performance data to display:  
  
    1.  Identify a class or group for performance data. For example, to create a performance view for UNIX\-based computers, select **Unix Computer** in the **Show data related to** list. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
    2.  Select the conditions that define the content of the view. There are a number of different conditions that you can choose. For the UNIX\-based computers performance view, select **collected by specific rules** in the **Select conditions** list.  
  
    3.  Refine the criteria description by clicking the underlined text in the **Criteria description** box.  
  
        For the **collected by specific rules** condition, click **specific**. In the **Select rules** window, select a performance collection rule, and then click **OK**.  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    > You can add multiple criteria to refine the view to fit your needs.  
  
5.  Customize the appearance of the alert view on the **Display** tab. You can specify the chart type to display, the period of time that the chart should cover, and the display options for the X axis and Y axis.  
  
6.  Click **OK** to create the view.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateadiagramview"></a>How to Create a Diagram View  
In [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)], a diagram view uses a template to control the layout of the information in the diagram. You can choose from an existing template or create your own template. If you choose to create your own template, you configure the layout of the view while you are creating the view.  
  
#### To create a diagram view  
  
1.  In the Operations console, click **My Workspace**.  
  
2.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view, point to **New**, and click **Diagram View**.  
  
3.  In the **Properties** dialog box of the diagram view, type a name and a description for the view. \(The description is optional.\)  
  
4.  Click **Browse**. In the **Select Object** dialog box, click the group for the type of objects that you want to include in your diagram view, and then click **OK**. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
5.  Click **Create your own template** to design a layout for your diagram view.  
  
6.  If you want to accept the default settings for the diagram view, click **Create**. If you want to change the default settings, continue with this procedure.  
  
7.  On the **Diagram Properties** tab, type a number in **Levels to show** to display the number of related classes and subclasses that you want in your view. This number includes the top\-level class. In **Layout Direction**, click the drop\-down arrow to view a list of display options for the objects in your view. **North South** displays the objects in a vertical arrangement, and **East West** displays the objects side by side.  
  
8.  Click the **Object Properties** tab. Click **Boxes** if you want to delineate your related object types and child object types by containing them in a box. You can also adjust the **Nodes Per Row** setting to define how many of your related object types are listed before beginning another row.  
  
9. On the **Line Properties** tab, choose the format for the lines of the boxes in your diagram by using the **Containment Line** settings. Choose the format for objects that are not grouped by boxes using the **Non Containment Line** settings. Click **Create**.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateataskstatusview"></a>How to Create a Task Status View  
The task status view in [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)] is like most other view types in that you use the **Criteria** tab in the **Properties** dialog box of the view to define which objects you want shown in your view. You then use the **Display** tab to customize how the data looks in your view. Each section of the **Criteria** tab adds an additional filter to your view.  
  
#### To create a task status view  
  
1.  In the Operations console, click **My Workspace**.  
  
2.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view, point to **New**, and then click **Task Status View**.  
  
3.  In the **Properties** dialog box of the task status view, type a name and a description for the view. \(The description is optional.\)  
  
4.  On the **Criteria** tab, click the ellipses \(**…**\) next to the **Show data related to** box. The **Select a Target Type** dialog box displays a list of the object types available in your management group. Click to select the object type that most specifically describes the objects that you want to view, and then click **OK**. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
    The object type you select is listed in the **Show data related to** box. If you want to narrow the focus of the view, you can also click the ellipses \(**…**\) next to **Show data contained in a specific group**. Click a group to filter the objects shown in your view, and then click **OK**.  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    > If you do not see the object type that you want, click **View all targets** and then type a word or phrase in **Find** to filter the displayed list.  
  
5.  Use the check boxes provided to select individual criteria to apply additional filters to the objects that you want to display in your view. You might need to further define the criteria in the **Criteria description** box.  
  
6.  Click the **Display** tab. By default, all columns in your state view display. Click to deselect one or more columns that you do not want to display. Choose how you want to sort the objects in your view in **Sort columns by**.  
  
7.  Click **OK** to create the view.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateawebpageview"></a>How to Create a Web Page View  
You can create a view that displays a specific web page. For example, you can create a web page view that points to http:\/\/social.technet.microsoft.com\/Forums\/category\/systemcenteroperationsmanager, which makes the community forums for Operations Manager available to you within the Operations console. You can interact with the web pages displayed in a web page view, just as you can in an internet browser.  
  
#### To create a web page view  
  
1.  In the Operations console, click **My Workspace**.  
  
2.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view, point to **New**, and then click **Web Page View**.  
  
3.  Enter a name and description for the view. \(The description is optional.\)  
  
4.  In the **Target website** field, enter the URI for the web page to be displayed in the view. You can specify an Internet or intranet address.  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    > The web view will only display the specified web page on computers that have access to that web page. For example, if you create a web page view that links to the System Center page on Microsoft.com, an Operations console on a computer that does not have Internet access will not display the correct web page in that web page view.  
  
5.  Click **OK**.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateadashboardview"></a>How to Create a Dashboard View  
You can create dashboard views in the [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)] web console as well as the Operations console.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> When a dashboard view uses data from the data warehouse database, operators might be able to view data that they would not otherwise have access to in views that use data from the operational database.  
  
You can use dashboard views to present multiple types of data in a single view. You select either a flow layout, which consists of multiple columns, or a grid layout, which consists of multiple cells. In the grid layout, you also specify the layout of the cells.  
  
If you create a dashboard view that uses a flow layout, you can change the number of columns afterward. If you create a dashboard view that uses a grid layout, you can change the layout afterward but you cannot change the number of cells.  
  
For both layouts, after you create the dashboard view, you add widgets which will display specific types of data.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
> A column or cell in a dashboard view can contain a widget or another dashboard view.  
  
[!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)] contains the following widgets:  
  
-   State  
  
-   Performance  
  
-   Alert  
  
Additional widgets may be provided by management packs.  
  
Widgets in a dashboard view can display data for a particular target class or group of objects. To support the dashboard view that you are going to create, you should first create a group containing a set of computers or objects to include in the displayed data.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
> When you create a dashboard view that includes a widget that displays data for a target class that contains instances \(a non\-singleton class\), that dashboard view cannot be imported into other management groups.  
  
You can also create a service level dashboard view to track data for service level objectives that you create. For more information, see [Creating a Service Level Dashboard](../../om/manage/Creating-a-Service-Level-Dashboard.md).  
  
#### To create a dashboard view  
  
1.  In the Operations console, click **My Workspace**.  
  
2.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view, point to **New**, and click **Dashboard View**.  
  
3.  In the New Instance Wizard, on the **Template** page, click either **Flow Layout** or **Grid Layout**, and then click **Next**.  
  
4.  On the **General Properties** page, enter a name for the dashboard view. The description is optional. Click **Next**.  
  
5.  For a grid layout, on the **Select Layout** page, choose the number of cells to display and the layout template for the cells. The layout templates change based on the number of cells selected. Click **Next**.  
  
    For a flow layout, on the **Specify the flow layout column count** page, select the number of columns to display. Click **Next**.  
  
6.  Review the settings on the **Summary** page, and then click **Create**.  
  
7.  Click **Close**.  
  
The dashboard view that you created is displayed. Next, you configure the columns or cells in the dashboard view.  
  
#### To add widgets to a dashboard view  
  
1.  In a cell or column of a dashboard view, click **Click to add widget**.  
  
2.  In the New Instance Wizard, on the **Template** page, select from the available templates. The wizard pages for the Flow Layout and Grid Layout templates are the same as in the new dashboard view procedure. The following steps provide instructions for the other widget templates.  
  
    **Alert Widget:**  
  
    1.  On the **General Properties** page, enter a name for the widget. The description is optional. Click **Next**.  
  
    2.  On the **Specify the Scope** page, select a group or object, and then click **Next**. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
    3.  On the **Specify the Criteria** page, use the severity, priority, and resolution state checkboxes to select the criteria for data to be displayed, and then click **Next**.  
  
    4.  On the **Display** page, select the columns you want displayed. You can also configure the sort order and how to group the data. Click **Next**.  
  
    5.  Review the settings on the **Summary** page, and then click **Create**.  
  
    6.  Click **Close**.  
  
    **Performance Widget:**  
  
    1.  On the **General Properties** page, enter a name for the widget. The description is optional. Click **Next**.  
  
    2.  On the **Specify the Scope and Counters** page, select a group or object. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
    3.  On the **Specify the Scope and Counters** page, click **Add**.  
  
    4.  In the **Select performance counters** dialog box, use the **Object**, **Counter**, and **Instance** dropdown menus to filter the performance counters listed in **Available Items**. Select performance counters from the **Available Items** list, click **Add**, and then click **OK**.  
  
        > [!NOTE]  
        > The performance counters available are scoped to the group or object you selected in **Select a group or object**.  
  
    5.  Click **Next**.  
  
    6.  On the **Time Range** page, select the time range for the data, and click **Next**.  
  
    7.  On the **Specify the Chart Preferences** page, select the items you want displayed in the performance chart. You can configure order of the items by using the up and down arrows. For the vertical axis, you can select Automatic or configure the minimum and maximum values manually. Cilck **Next**.  
  
    8.  Review the settings on the **Summary** page, and then click **Create**.  
  
    9. Click **Close**.  
  
    **State Widget:**  
  
    1.  On the **General Properties** page, enter a name for the widget. The description is optional. Click **Next**.  
  
    2.  On the **Specify the Scope** page, click **Add**.  
  
    3.  In the **Add Groups or Objects** window, click the groups or objects in **Available items** and click **Add**, and then click **OK**.  
  
    4.  In **Select a class to scope the members of the specific groups**, you can change the selected class. \(Object is selected by default.\) Click **Next**.  
  
    5.  On the **Specify the Criteria** page, use the health state checkboxes to select the criteria for data to be displayed, and then click **Next**.  
  
        > [!NOTE]  
        > You can also select to display only objects in maintenance mode.  
  
    6.  On the **Display** page, select the columns you want displayed. You can also configure the sort order and how to group the data. Click **Next**.  
  
    7.  Review the settings on the **Summary** page, and then click **Create**.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_howtocreateanoverridessummaryview"></a>How to Create an Overrides Summary View  
You can only create an overrides summary view in My Workspace.  
  
You can view all rule and monitor overrides in an overrides summary view. The overrides summary view can be used for both sealed and unsealed management packs.  
  
#### To create an overrides summary view  
  
1.  In the Operations console, click **My Workspace**.  
  
2.  Right\-click the folder where you want to store the view, point to **New**, and then click **Overrides Summary Vieew**.  
  
3.  In the **Properties** dialog box of the overrides summary view, type a name and description for the view. \(The description is optional.\)  
  
4.  Set the criteria to identify the performance data to display:  
  
    1.  Identify a class or group for performance data. For example, to create an overrides summary view for all System Center agents, select **Agent** in the **Show data related to** list. For more information, see [Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md).  
  
    2.  Select the conditions that define the content of the view.  
  
    3.  Refine the criteria description by clicking the underlined text in the **Criteria description** box.  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    > You can add multiple criteria to refine the view to fit your needs.  
  
5.  Customize the appearance of the alert view on the **Display** tab.  
  
6.  Click **OK** to create the view.  
  
## See Also  
[Using Views in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Using-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
[Standard Views in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Standard-Views-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
[How to Personalize a View in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/How-to-Personalize-a-View-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
[Guidance for Scoping and Targeting Views](../../om/manage/Guidance-for-Scoping-and-Targeting-Views.md)  
  
