---
title: Investigating Alert Storms
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: system-center-threshold
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - operations-manager
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 3c27434a-ea3a-45b6-b8ce-3821222aba80
---
# Investigating Alert Storms
A large and sudden increase in the number of alerts is called an alert storm. An alert storm can be a symptom of massive changes of some kind within your management group, such as the catastrophic failure of networks. An alert storm can also be a symptom of configuration issues within [!INCLUDE[om12long](../../om/manage/includes/om12long_md.md)].  
  
Installing new or updated management packs can give rise to an alert storm. Monitors in a management pack begin working as soon as the management pack has been imported. Use best practices in importing management packs to minimize alert storms.  
  
## Finding Alert Storms  
For general, real\-time monitoring of alerts, use the **Active Alerts** view. Make sure **Scope** is not active and hiding alerts. For more information, see [How to Change Scope](../../om/manage/Finding-Data-and-Objects-in-the-Operations-Manager-Consoles.md#bkmk_howtochangescope).  
  
Check for large numbers of alerts when your network undergoes changes. Monitor closely when you install a new management pack.  
  
[!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage/includes/om12short_md.md)] offers reports that can be useful in identifying alert storms. From an Operations console with access to a reporting server, look at the **Microsoft Generic Report Library**. The reports **Most Common Alerts** and **Most Common Events** help identify high\-volume alerts.  
  
## Modifying Monitors and Rules  
If you are getting a large number of alerts that do not point to issues in your managed systems, you need to modify the monitors or rules that create those alerts.  
  
View active alert details in the **Monitoring** workspace. **Alert Details** specifies the monitor or rule for an alert.  
  
Modify the monitor using overrides. The procedure for overriding rules is the same as for monitors. See how your overrides affect the amount of alerts and continue to fine\-tune the monitors as necessary. For more information, see [Tuning Monitoring by Using Targeting and Overrides](../../om/manage/Tuning-Monitoring-by-Using-Targeting-and-Overrides.md).  
  
## About Suppressed Alerts  
Rules offer the option of suppressing duplicate alerts. A suppressed alert is not displayed in the Operations console. Each suppressed alert increments the repeat count for the alert that is displayed. You can examine the repeat count in the properties for an alert.  
  
[!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage/includes/om12short_md.md)] suppresses only duplicate alerts as defined by the alert suppression criteria. Fields stated in the suppression criteria must be identical for the alert to be considered a duplicate and suppressed. An alert must be created by the same rule and be unresolved to be considered a duplicate.  
  
## See Also  
[How Heartbeats Work in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/How-Heartbeats-Work-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
[Resolving Heartbeat Alerts](../../om/manage/Resolving-Heartbeat-Alerts.md)  
[Viewing Active Alerts](../../om/manage/Viewing-Active-Alerts.md)  
[Viewing Alert Details](../../om/manage/Viewing-Alert-Details.md)  
[Examining Properties of Alerts, Rules, and Monitors](../../om/manage/Examining-Properties-of-Alerts--Rules--and-Monitors.md)  
[Impact of Closing an Alert](../../om/manage/Impact-of-Closing-an-Alert.md)  
[How to Close an Alert Generated by a Monitor](../../om/manage/How-to-Close-an-Alert-Generated-by-a-Monitor.md)  
[How to Reset Health](../../om/manage/How-to-Reset-Health.md)  
[Identifying the Computer Experiencing a Problem](../../om/manage/Identifying-the-Computer-Experiencing-a-Problem.md)  
[Using Health Explorer to Investigate Problems](../../om/manage/Using-Health-Explorer-to-Investigate-Problems.md)  
[Using Event View to Investigate Problems](../../om/manage/Using-Event-View-to-Investigate-Problems.md)  
[How an Alert is Produced](../../om/manage/How-an-Alert-is-Produced.md)  
[How to View All Rules and Monitors Running on an Agent-Managed Computer](../../om/manage/How-to-View-All-Rules-and-Monitors-Running-on-an-Agent-Managed-Computer.md)  
[How to Set Alert Resolution States](../../om/manage/How-to-Set-Alert-Resolution-States.md)  
[How to Configure Automatic Alert Resolution](../../om/manage/How-to-Configure-Automatic-Alert-Resolution.md)  
[Diagnostic and Recovery Tasks](../../om/manage/Diagnostic-and-Recovery-Tasks.md)  
[Viewing and Investigating Alerts for .NET Applications &#40;Server-side Perspective&#41;](../../om/manage/Viewing-and-Investigating-Alerts-for-.NET-Applications--Server-side-Perspective-.md)  
  
