---
title: Viewing Network Devices and Data in Operations Manager
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: system-center-threshold
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - operations-manager
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 1a28a022-698a-4bb9-8611-7e2fa799b372
manager:cfreeman
---
# Viewing Network Devices and Data in Operations Manager
After [!INCLUDE[om12long](../../om/manage//om12long_md.md)] discovers your network devices, you can view information about the devices using the following procedures.  
  
> [!IMPORTANT]  
> You must open the Operations console as an Operations Manager administrator to view the dashboard views.  
  
This topic describes the following views:  
  
-   [Network Summary Dashboard View](../../om/manage/Viewing-Network-Devices-and-Data-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_NetworkSummaryDashboard)  
  
-   [Network Node Dashboard View](../../om/manage/Viewing-Network-Devices-and-Data-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_NetworkNodeDashboard)  
  
-   [Network Interface Dashboard View](../../om/manage/Viewing-Network-Devices-and-Data-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_NetworkInterfaceDashboard)  
  
-   [Network Vicinity Dashboard](../../om/manage/Viewing-Network-Devices-and-Data-in-Operations-Manager.md#bkmk_networkvicinitydashboard)  
  
## <a name="bkmk_NetworkSummaryDashboard"></a>Network Summary Dashboard View  
The Network Summary Dashboard view provides a view of important data for the nodes and interfaces of the network. A node can be any device connected to a network. Nodes can be switches, routers, firewalls, load balancers, or any other networked device. An interface is a physical entity with which network connections are made, such as a port.  
  
Use the Network Summary Dashboard view to view the following information:  
  
-   Nodes with Slowest Response \(ICMP ping\)  
  
-   Nodes with Highest CPU Usage  
  
-   Interfaces with Highest Utilization  
  
-   Interfaces with Most Send Errors  
  
-   Interfaces with Most Receive Errors  
  
-   Nodes with the Most Alerts  
  
-   Interfaces with the Most Alerts  
  
You can select a particular node or interface name in the Network Summary Dashboard view and then select related tasks in the **Tasks** pane, such as starting the Network Node Dashboard view and the Network Interface Dashboard view.  
  
#### To open the Network Summary Dashboard view  
  
1.  Open the Operations console, and then select the **Monitoring** workspace.  
  
2.  Expand **Network Monitoring**.  
  
3.  Click **Network Summary Dashboard**.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_NetworkNodeDashboard"></a>Network Node Dashboard View  
A node can be any device connected to a network. Nodes can be switches, routers, firewalls, load balancers, or any other networked device. Use the Network Node Dashboard view to view the following information:  
  
-   Vicinity view of the node  
  
-   Availability statistics of the node over the last 24 hours, last 48 hours, past 7 days, or past 30 days  
  
    > [!NOTE]  
    > Periods of time that were not monitored are counted as available in the availability statistics.  
  
-   Node properties  
  
-   Average response time of the node  
  
-   Processor usage of the node over the last 24 hours  
  
-   Current health of interfaces on the node  
  
-   Alerts generated by this node  
  
-   Alert details  
  
#### To open the Network Node Dashboard view  
  
1.  Open the Operations console, and then select the **Monitoring** workspace.  
  
2.  Expand **Network Monitoring**.  
  
3.  Click the view for the desired node, such as **Switches**.  
  
4.  Select a node.  
  
5.  In the **Tasks** pane, select **Network Node Dashboard**.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_NetworkInterfaceDashboard"></a>Network Interface Dashboard View  
An interface is a physical entity with which network connections are made, such as a port. By default, [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)] will only monitor ports that are connected to another device that is being monitored. Ports that are not connected will not be monitored. Use the Network Interface Dashboard view to view the following information:  
  
-   Bytes sent and received over the past 24 hours  
  
-   Packets sent and received over the past 24 hours  
  
-   Interface properties  
  
-   Send and receive errors and discards over the past 24 hours  
  
-   Network interface usage percentage  
  
-   Alerts generated by this interface  
  
-   Alert details  
  
#### To open the Network Interface Dashboard view  
  
1.  Open the Operations console, and then select the **Monitoring** workspace.  
  
2.  Expand **Network Monitoring**.  
  
3.  Click the view for the desired node, such as **Switches**.  
  
4.  Select a node.  
  
5.  In the **Tasks** pane, select **Network Node Dashboard**.  
  
6.  In the **Health of Interfaces on this Node** section, click an interface, and then in the **Tasks** pane, select **Network Interface Dashboard**.  
  
## <a name="bkmk_networkvicinitydashboard"></a>Network Vicinity Dashboard  
Use the Network Vicinity Dashboard to view a diagram of a node and all nodes and agent computers that are connected to that node. The Network Vicinity Dashboard view displays one “hop”, or level of connection. However, you can configure the view to display up to five levels of connection. The diagram displays the health of the nodes and the health of the connections between nodes.  
  
The vicinity view shows the relation between network devices and the Windows computers and other network devices that are connected to them. This logic is performed by relating the network adapter on the agent computer with the network device that it is connected to. Because of this, the network adapter must be discovered before this association can occur. You can view the discovered network adapters by either creating a new view or using the **Discovered Inventory** view to list instances of the **Computer Network Adapter** class.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
> Because devices that use OSI layer 1, such as hubs, do not have MAC addresses, layer 1 devices will not be connected to computers in the Network Vicinity Dashboard. The vicinity view will only show connections between layer 1 devices and layer 2 or 3 devices.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
> Network adapters using NIC teaming will not be identified as “teamed” in the Network Vicinity Dashboard.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
> Virtual machines are associated with the same network device as their host. This version of [!INCLUDE[om12short](../../om/manage//om12short_md.md)] does not show a relationship between the two computers.  
  
> [!NOTE]  
> Operations Manager does not display UNIX\- and Linux\-based devices in the Network Vicinity Dashboard.  
  
#### To open Network Vicinity View  
  
1.  Open Operations console, and then select the **Monitoring** workspace.  
  
2.  Expand **Network Monitoring**.  
  
3.  Click a node state view, such as **Network Devices**.  
  
4.  In the **Tasks** pane, click  **Vicinity Dashboard**.  
  
Things to try in the vicinity view:  
  
-   Select a node or connection to view details for that node or connection in the **Details** view.  
  
-   Change the levels of connection to be displayed in the diagram by selecting a new value for **Hops** in the toolbar.  
  
-   To include agent computers in the view in addition to network devices, select the **Show Computers** check box.  
  
-   Select a node in the vicinity view. In the **Tasks** pane, click the option to launch the Network Node dashboard.  
  
-   To change the central device of the view, select a device, and then click **Vicinity View**.  
  
## See Also  
[Monitoring Networks by Using Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Monitoring-Networks-by-Using-Operations-Manager.md)  
[How to Discover Network Devices in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/How-to-Discover-Network-Devices-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
[Network Device Discovery Settings](../../om/manage/Network-Device-Discovery-Settings.md)  
[Run As Accounts for Network Monitoring in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Run-As-Accounts-for-Network-Monitoring-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
[How to Delete or Restore a Network Device in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/How-to-Delete-or-Restore-a-Network-Device-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
[Tuning Network Monitoring](../../om/manage/Tuning-Network-Monitoring.md)  
[Security for Servers Performing Network Discovery](../../om/manage/Security-for-Servers-Performing-Network-Discovery.md)  
[Network Devices Supported for Discovery by Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Network-Devices-Supported-for-Discovery-by-Operations-Manager.md)  
[Reports for Network Monitoring in Operations Manager](../../om/manage/Reports-for-Network-Monitoring-in-Operations-Manager.md)  
  
