---
title: Call-Level Interfaces
ms.custom: na
ms.prod: sql-non-specified
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - drivers
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: 42257bb6-0bf1-4533-a4ef-4a6dd2aecb18
translation.priority.ht: 
  - en-gb
---
# Call-Level Interfaces
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<developerConceptualDocument xmlns="http://ddue.schemas.microsoft.com/authoring/2003/5" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://ddue.schemas.microsoft.com/authoring/2003/5 http://dduestorage.blob.core.windows.net/ddueschema/developer.xsd">
  <introduction>
    <para>The final technique for sending SQL statements to the DBMS is through a call-level interface (CLI). A call-level interface provides a library of DBMS functions that can be called by the application program. Thus, instead of trying to blend SQL with another programming language, a call-level interface is similar to the routine libraries most programmers are accustomed to using, such as the string, I/O, or math libraries in C. Note that DBMSs that support embedded SQL already have a call-level interface, the calls to which are generated by the precompiler. However, these calls are undocumented and subject to change without notice.</para>
    <para>Call-level interfaces are commonly used in client/server architectures, in which the application program (the client) resides on one computer and the DBMS (the server) resides on a different computer. The application calls CLI functions on the local system, and those calls are sent across the network to the DBMS for processing.</para>
    <para>A call-level interface is similar to dynamic SQL, in that SQL statements are passed to the DBMS for processing at run time, but it differs from embedded SQL as a whole in that there are no embedded SQL statements and no precompiler is required.</para>
    <para>Using a call-level interface typically involves the following steps:  </para>
    <list class="ordered">
      <listItem>
        <para>The application calls a CLI function to connect to the DBMS.</para>
      </listItem>
      <listItem>
        <para>The application builds an SQL statement and places it in a buffer. It then calls one or more CLI functions to send the statement to the DBMS for preparation and execution.</para>
      </listItem>
      <listItem>
        <para>If the statement is a SELECT statement, the application calls a CLI function to return the results in application buffers. Typically, this function returns one row or one column of data at a time.</para>
      </listItem>
      <listItem>
        <para>The application calls a CLI function to disconnect from the DBMS.</para>
      </listItem>
    </list>
  </introduction>
  <relatedTopics />
</developerConceptualDocument>