---
title: Features in SQL Server Management Studio
ms.custom: na
ms.date: 07/12/2016
ms.prod: sql-non-specified
ms.reviewer: na
ms.suite: na
ms.technology: 
  - tools-ssms
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.topic: article
ms.assetid: e75504b9-7968-4e3b-8411-fd79fe09021e
manager: jhubbard
translation.priority.mt: 
  - de-de
  - es-es
  - fr-fr
  - it-it
  - ja-jp
  - ko-kr
  - pt-br
  - ru-ru
  - zh-cn
  - zh-tw
---
# Features in SQL Server Management Studio
[!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] includes the following general features:  
  
-   Supports most administrative tasks for [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../content/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)].  
  
-   A single, integrated environment for [!INCLUDE[ssDEnoversion](../content/includes/ssDEnoversion_md.md)] management and authoring.  
  
-   Dialogs for managing objects in the [!INCLUDE[ssDEnoversion](../content/includes/ssDEnoversion_md.md)], [!INCLUDE[ssASnoversion](../content/includes/ssASnoversion_md.md)], and [!INCLUDE[ssRSnoversion](../content/includes/ssRSnoversion_md.md)], that allows you to execute your actions immediately, send them to a Code Editor, or script them for later execution.  
  
-   Non\-modal and resizable dialogs allow access to multiple tools while a dialog is open.  
  
-   A common scheduling dialog that allows you to perform action of the management dialogs at a later time.  
  
-   Exporting and importing [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] server registration from one [!INCLUDE[ssManStudio](../content/includes/ssManStudio_md.md)] environment to another.  
  
-   Save or print XML Showplan or Deadlock files generated by SQL Server Profiler, review them later, or send them to administrators for analysis.  
  
-   A new error and informational message box that presents much more information, allows you to send [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../content/includes/msCoName_md.md)] a comment about the messages, allows you to copy messages to the clipboard, and allows you to easily e\-mail the messages to your support team.  
  
-   An integrated Web browser for quick browsing of MSDN or online help.  
  
-   Integration of Help from online communities.  
  
-   A tutorial on [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] to help you take advantage of the many new features and become more productive right away.  
  
-   A new activity monitor with filtering and automatic refresh.  
  
-   Integrated Database Mail interfaces.  
  
## New Scripting Capabilities  
The Code Editor component of [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] contains integrated script editors for authoring [!INCLUDE[tsql](../content/includes/tsql_md.md)], MDX, DMX, and XML\/A. It features:  
  
-   Dynamic Help for immediate access to relevant information while you work.  
  
-   A rich set of templates with the ability to create custom templates.  
  
-   Support for writing and editing queries or scripts without requiring a connection to a server.  
  
-   Scripting support for SQLCMD queries and scripts.  
  
-   A new interface for viewing XML results.  
  
-   Integrated source control for solution and script projects, supporting storing and maintaining copies of scripts as they evolve over time.  
  
-   [!INCLUDE[msCoName](../content/includes/msCoName_md.md)] IntelliSense support for MDX statements.  
  
## Object Explorer Features  
The Object Explorer component of [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] is an integrated tool for viewing and managing objects in all server types. It features:  
  
-   Filtering by all or part of a name, schema, or date.  
  
-   The asynchronous population of objects, with the ability to filter objects based on their metadata.  
  
-   Access to [!INCLUDE[ssNoVersion](../content/includes/ssNoVersion_md.md)] Agent on replication servers for administration.  
  
For more information, see [Object Explorer](../content/Object-Explorer.md).  
  
## Extensibility  
[!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] is built upon the Visual Studio Isolated Shell, which inherently supports extensibility (add\-ins\/plug\-ins). It is possible to tap into the Visual Studio extensibility services to surface custom capabilities within [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)]; however, such extensibility is not supported.  
  
There are some users and third parties that have developed extensions to [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)]. While we do not discourage this, keep in mind that such extensibility is not supported, so there may be issues with backward\/forward compatibility. Microsoft does not publish documentation for extending [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)]. There are, however, community blogs and sample code that you may be able to leverage.  
  
Microsoft does not support [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] installations with [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] extensions present, so if you have installed [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] extensions, you may want to remove them before calling Microsoft Customer Support about a [!INCLUDE[ssManStudioFull](../content/includes/ssManStudioFull_md.md)] issue.  
  
## See Also  
[Use SQL Server Management Studio](../content/Use-SQL-Server-Management-Studio.md)  
  
